Hello and welcome to Integrating
and Extending Quartz Composer.
My name is Troy and I'm here with the
rest of the Quartz Composer team to
give you a sneak peek at what we've
been working on in Snow Leopard.
So today we're going to
talk about Quartz Composer,
obviously.
I'm going to start with
a brief introduction.
We don't have a lot of time today,
so it's going to be brief.
And if this is your first
interaction with Quartz Composer,
I invite you to just sit back and relax,
enjoy the show,
and afterwards take a look
at one of the many getting
started materials found online.
Also, we're having a lab session
after this session,
so you can come and ask
us any questions you have.
So then I'm going to talk about
some reuse in Quartz Composer and
how you can get the most out of
the workflows in Quartz Composer.
And I'm going to talk about some
of the performance improvements
we were making in Snow Leopard.
Then I'm going to have Alessandro
come up on stage and talk
about the new interaction
model we have in Quartz Composer.
And Kevin is going to wrap things up
with integration with OpenCL and how
Quartz Composer is the best environment
for you to create those OpenCL kernels.
So what is Quartz Composer?
Quartz Composer is a visual programming
environment which is embedded
in the system in the framework.
It's also the name of an editor that we
ship with the developer tools for free.
So you might be confused
if you think that,
oh,
I don't have a Quartz Composer editor,
I can't show my compositions to my users.
But that's not the case because
it ships with the operating
system and you can view it in many
different places across the system.
For example, here is a composition
embedded directly in Keynote.
This is a very practical use of Quartz
Composer because it was the basis
for Time Machine and it's also really
great for hypnotizing developers.
This composition was created
with this set of patches.
Now a patch is a functional block
which is used to define a composition.
And as you can see,
we're working on updating the UI to make
it more functional and easier to use.
So we hope that you guys enjoy that.
Quartz Composer is a patch-based
abstraction of developer APIs.
What that means is there's
all these things in the system
that you want to get access to,
and Quartz Composer is your way to
use them without writing any code.
So for example, we have graphics
technologies like Core Image,
QuickTime, and it's all based on OpenGL.
We also have communication type
technologies such as networking and XML.
And we have patches which talk directly
to the input devices in the computer,
such as the keyboard, the mouse,
and the video input.
So this makes it really easy
for you to create compositions
because we have so many patches.
Now, when you create these compositions,
they become a file format.
We call them compositions.
They end in .qtz.
And that allows you to integrate them
easily within the operating system.
Here at Apple, we've been hard at work
integrating them in a lot of
applications that Apple writes.
And there's a lot of third-party
development that's going
on in Quartz Composer also.
I'd like to point out, like, for example,
Podcast Producer is really,
really useful for universities
and institutions to apply their
branding to podcasts before they
get distributed in iTunes U,
for example.
Another application you might
be familiar with is Photo Booth.
It's a really fun example
of Quartz Composer,
but some of the most useful examples
of Quartz Composer being used are
the ones that are being developed
by developers like yourselves.
So we have companies today that are using
Quartz Composer for image processing,
for example, Photo Booth type effects
in their applications.
Also,
there's broadcast television stations
using Quartz Composer to process their
images before they're distributed.
We also have medical and
scientific applications that
are using Quartz Composer to
display large amounts of data.
We have medical companies and we
have schools that are using Quartz
Composer for scientific uses like
astrology and that kind of stuff.
Quartz Composer is also really
great for motion graphics.
We have VJs using Quartz Composer
for their live performances in clubs
because Quartz Composer has a really
great real-time rendering system.
Also, you might be aware of Apple stores
which use Quartz Composer in their
digital signage to tell you when
Genius is ready for your appointment.
Also,
you should notice that Quartz Composer is
not only for real-time graphics because
you can use it as a processing engine,
either to process your images and create
offline representations of those images,
or you can just process data
and not even use the rendering
pipeline of Quartz Composer at all.
So let's talk about what Quartz Composer
can do for you in reusing the various
components that you tend to write.
As you may know, reuse is very important,
whether you're an artist and
you want to reuse components in
your various artistic designs,
or you want -- if you're
a computer programmer,
you know that reuse is important for
your frameworks and your classes.
So Quartz Composer is good for that too.
And one of the base functionalities
of Quartz Composer is the patches,
and we've written over 250 patches
for you to use in your compositions.
That's code that you don't have
to write because we've already
done the hard work of writing,
testing, and implementing those patches.
And if that's not enough for you,
we also provide a QC plugin API which
shipped on Leopard which allows you
to write your own custom QC plugins.
There's also, for some of the stylistic
effects that you want to reuse,
there's Composition Loader,
which allows you to load at runtime
a composition which you may not
know the path to when you're
developing your application.
And we also have the
QC Composition Repository,
which allows you to get access to a
lot of effects that Apple has written
and also some effects that you guys are
writing and installing on the computers.
So that's a really good way to
have reuse in your applications.
And finally,
for development time reusability,
there's virtual patches.
And these are small patches
which reference external
compositions in a way that's more
functional rather than stylistic.
So to give you an example
how virtual patches work,
because it is pretty abstract,
I'm going to go to a demo.
So on your Leopard
machines or Snow Leopard,
we're going to have a lot of
examples in the developer examples.
So let's go ahead and go
to your developer examples
inside Quartz Composer.
We have a compositions directory,
and inside that is a conceptual
compositions directory.
I'm going to choose Image TV.
Now even though we have most of
these compositions on your computer,
we don't have a lot of time for
hands-on demonstrations this year.
So go ahead and just pay attention
up here and you can go back to those
compositions later on your own time.
Now that this composition
is fully loaded,
you can see that it's a wall of images
which is used to replicate the effect
of Apple TV when it first starts up.
It's a pretty neat effect, I think.
But what I'm really interested in
today is this progress bar because
it's a fairly modular component and it
can be reused in other compositions.
So as an example of composition
that could be reused in,
let's go back to the conceptual
examples and open up Image Flow.
Now this composition you may also be
familiar with because it replicates
the effect of CoverFlow in the system.
CoverFlow is using OpenGL but Quartz
Composer is based on OpenGL so there's
no reason you can't implement an effect
as cool as that in Quartz Composer.
But as you can see,
even though it loads images from
the desktop pictures folder,
there's no progress bar in this.
So let's go ahead and add one.
First of all, let's take a look at this,
the image TV composition and
figure out how to read it.
First thing I always do when I look
at a composition is figure out where
the renderers are because that's
actually what's doing the hard work
and pushing pixels to the screen.
So the renderers now in
Snow Leopard are drawn in blue.
And they are usually on the
right side of the composition
because input goes from patches.
They're inputs into the left side
and outputs on the right side.
So for a renderer that has no outputs,
all the inputs are on the
left side of the patch.
So let's go ahead and zoom
in on one of these renderers.
First thing a composition does
is clears the composition.
This provides the black background
that you see and kind of makes
sure there's no graphic corruption.
After that,
we render a 3D transformation.
Now, we don't know actually how the wall
is drawn because that's not important.
It's encapsulated inside
this 3D transformation.
And all we know is we have this block,
this blob on screen.
Whatever is inside is rendering can
be animated by using -- by connecting
these rotation translation inputs to,
for example, this Timelines patch.
And so the Timelines are what
drive the whole composition.
On layer three,
we have a sprite which provides
the fade-in effect at the
beginning of the composition.
And just below that is this macro
patch which contains all the necessary
components for the progress bar.
I'm going to go ahead and double
click on the macro patch and
see what patches are inside.
You can see it's composed of two sprites.
The sprite renders a rectangle on screen.
The lower sprite renders
just a gray square.
And the upper sprite renders
with a width that is determined
by the number of images loaded.
So if I go back to the root macro patch
by clicking on the navigation bar,
you can see once again this macro patch,
which has square corners because
that's how we denote patches
which contain other patches.
New in Snow Leopard,
we can unencapsulate this macro
patch and make it all those internal
patches right here on the root level.
And that's done by selecting the patch,
holding down the
Control key and clicking,
and you can choose Explode Macro.
That should make it really easy for you
to refactor your compositions because you
can see all the connections are recreated
and you can now select a different
set of patches to create a macro from.
Now, I said I wanted to use this
progress bar in another composition,
so that sounds like an excellent
chance to use a virtual patch.
And a virtual patch will package
these patches up like a macro,
but it will save it to my library
folder and allow me to insert
it into other compositions.
So I'm going to choose the editor menu,
say Create Virtual Patch,
and name it Progress Bar.
Now Quartz Composer has
gone behind the scenes,
saved all those patches to my library
folder and replaced it with this patch,
which no longer has rounded corners
because this is no longer a macro.
It's actually a real patch as far
as Quartz Composer is concerned.
And it's completely separated
from the system as far as
the subgraph is concerned.
So all you have to know is that this
is a real patch now in the composition.
I'm going to close this down.
It's still going to be open over here.
And I'm going to open up
the image flow once again.
Now when I want to insert a patch,
all I need to do is
open the Patch Creator,
type in progress bar,
and hit return and it will
insert into the workspace.
This macro here is what does all
the heavy lifting of downloading
and processing the images.
For example, in this composition,
it processed a second copy of the
image to create the reflection,
but that's all done under the hood
because it's a macro and we don't
have to worry about the details.
All we need to know is the
download progress output of this
macro patch can be connected to
the input of this progress bar.
Now when I go to full
screen and reload it,
you can see that the images load and
the progress bar fills at the same time.
Now to show you the real
power of a virtual patch,
I'm going to open up that
previously opened image,
Image TV composition.
and show you how I can change
the virtual patch in one place
and have that modification
affect all the open compositions.
So I'm going to go to my preferences.
Virtual patches are managed
in the Clips Manager.
We still have clips,
but they have slightly
different meanings.
So I'm going to open up the progress
bar here in the Clips Manager.
And down here are all those patches that
we've been using over and over again.
Before the session,
I prepared a small asset,
which is just a small little image
that provides an Aqua gradient.
So I'm going to go ahead and
aquify all these progress bars.
I've drag and dropped an image from
the finder into the workspace and that
creates an image importer automatically.
So that's a pretty easy way to
get images in your composition.
Now I just need to click on an image,
connect it to the image input of
the sprite which draws the progress
bar and save this virtual patch.
And you'll notice the two
open compositions will
automatically have their
will automatically have their progress
bars updated to this Aqua look.
Now when I restart, the progress bar is
automatically aquified.
That's pretty good instant
savings right there.
It's important to notice that
compositions that have virtual
patches are like any other assets.
So you do need to save those--you need to
distribute those with your composition.
If you have, for example,
movies or downloaded images,
it's going to be the same story.
So make sure that you have
all your assets with your
composition when you distribute it.
So let's go ahead and
go back to the slides.
We really think that that will save a
lot of time for creating compositions,
but what are we going to do for your
compositions once they're created?
Well, we've been working really hard in
Snow Leopard to make performance
our number one priority,
and we think we've
done a pretty good job.
So all the compositions
that we've been writing,
or that we've been testing, are faster,
as fast or faster,
than their Leopard counterparts.
and with some compositions such
as high iteration compositions
that are up to eight times faster.
So that's quite a bit of savings.
We also have a certain
class of compositions,
which,
when they're embedded in applications,
are really useful, and those are the
event-driven compositions,
because Quartz Composer was
initially designed as an
animated graphics technology,
and so it's really good at that,
but your applications
don't always animate,
so Quartz Composer has developed a
system which allows Quartz Composer to
analyze the graph and figure out when
the composition doesn't need to render,
and we call that Idle State Detection.
And to show how that works,
I'm going to go to
another demo real quick.
So I've created a composition which
is arbitrarily hard on the GPU because
the teapot's object in Quartz
Composer is not optimized in any way.
So just because this is
showing high CPU usage,
that's by design.
When I click on this and rotate it,
I can get the composition to animate.
To help me out,
I've created this small application,
which, by the way,
uses Quartz Composer as the visualization
to give a CPU monitor with large
types so that you guys can all see it.
So I spin this around,
you can see that the CPU process
power for Quartz Composer is hovering
around 81%. But when it stops,
the CPU power drops almost to nothing.
And that's because of the idle state
detection that we've been implementing.
It's important to notice that
Quartz Composer is doing all
the analyzing in the background,
so you don't have to do
anything special to set that up.
And to prove that,
I'm going to open up the composition
we were working with earlier,
this image flow composition,
which is exactly the same as
the one on your Leopard machine,
so we haven't done any
work to optimize it,
and show you that it is
exactly the same story here.
It's perfectly performant and
responds nicely to the keyboard.
And when I open up the CPU meter,
You can see that the processing
power required when it's
animating is about 15% of the CPU.
When I take my hands off the
keyboard and let it sit for a second,
it drops down to about 0.4% of the CPU.
So that's pretty good savings.
This is going to come for free when
you're using QC view as we are in the
editor because we control the timers and
we tell the composition when to animate.
But what are you going to do if you
have a lower level API like QC Renderer?
If I can go back to slides,
I'll explain how that works.
So this is completely
optional because QCRenderer,
as you know, just asks Quartz Composer to
render a frame and it gives
you the rendered results.
But if you want to check,
if you want to ask the composition
if it needs to render right now,
you can ask it this question,
next recommended time for time.
And if the time it returns is now,
then you go ahead and render that --
you call the render at time method.
But if that time it returns
back is in the future,
then you can forgo rendering
for this iteration of your
timer loop or your display link,
whatever you're using.
And so that provides you with
the optimum performance for
those idle state opportunities.
Now, I said that QuartzComposer analyzes
the graph and asks all the patches
how -- if it needs to render.
So if you're a patch writer,
you may also want to respond.
So there's a new API for that as well.
If you override this method
on your time-dependent patches
and tell the renderer that,
yes, you do want to render this time,
you can return the current time.
But if you don't want
to render at this frame,
then you can return infinity
and QuartzComposer will take
that into consideration when
it's analyzing the graph.
Now, please note that this
is completely optional.
So if you don't implement this,
none of your patches are going to break.
They're going to work
exactly the same as before.
And this is also completely
unnecessary if your patch just
depends on the inputs because it's
going to do the right thing anyway.
This is only if, for example,
you're writing a network-dependent
patch that checks the Internet once
per minute or something.
So the time you return could be that
time remaining until that minute is up.
it up.
So this is really easy
for you to implement.
And in most cases,
you're not going to need
to do any work at all.
And this is really great for your
event-driven applications because not
only does it save processing time,
it'll save batteries--
battery time as well,
which is really important
for those Apple portables.
So to tell you how to take
advantage of this new API and
the new idle state optimization,
we're going to get Alessandro up
here to talk about the interaction
model in Quartz Composer.
Hey, thanks Troy.
Alright, so as Troy mentioned,
I'm going to talk a little bit about
interaction in Quartz Composer.
So one of the reasons that we started
to look at interaction in Quartz
Composer is that we found that a lot
of developers were creating these rich,
interactive, media-based compositions.
A lot of them being full-screen
compositions wherein you'd actually have
to create these on-screen type controls
and it was actually rather difficult.
So what we did is we went
ahead and created two modes of
interaction in Quartz Composer,
the first one being
interactive placement.
And what this is,
is this is an actual rendering mode
and it allows you to just quickly
and easily set up your compositions,
place a bunch of images and get going.
And then the next type of
interaction that we added
was interactive compositions.
In this case, this interaction patch.
And what that allows you
to do is actually make your
compositions interactive.
So I can sit up here and
talk about interaction,
or I could just show you.
So in this case,
what we're going to end up
building is this interactive
photo browsing composition.
If I can go to Demo.
All right, so I'll just get set up here.
So the first thing that we'll
look at is interactive placement.
And again,
this is just a quick and easy way
to get your compositions set up.
Okay.
So, you know, as usual,
we'll clear the screen.
And the next thing I'm going to
do is I'm just going to grab three
images here and drag them from
the Finder into the workspace.
We'll create three image importer nodes.
And I'll just use a
billboard to display these.
So here I have my first image.
My second image and my third image.
And you'll notice that these images are
all stacked one on top of the other.
So traditionally in Quartz Composer,
what I could do is I can
inspect one of these billboards.
And I would have to
independently position them
in the X and the Y dimension.
So in this case, like this.
And you can do it.
And you've probably seen some pretty
great examples of some of the things
that you can do in Quartz Composer,
but it's not necessarily optimal.
So what we did is we added this new
interactive placement rendering mode,
which you can see up here
as this little cross.
So if I just click on that,
now I can go ahead and actually
just position these as I want.
So, you know, I mean,
kind of an obvious thing,
but you'll notice that
as I move them around,
the X and the Y position
actually changes.
So what I can do is I can just stop,
restart the composition, save, reopen,
they get re-serialized
into the composition.
So again, you know,
just a quick and easy way of kind
of setting up your compositions.
But, you know,
when your compositions are actually
being executed within whatever
environment they're being executed in,
this isn't going to work.
This is really just for getting set up.
It's an editor feature.
What you want to do is you want to
then leverage the interaction patch.
So I've gone back to here to
the normal rendering mode.
I'll just get cleaned
up here a little bit,
and I'm going to add our
new interaction patch.
So here's the interaction patch.
And what I'm going to do is just
connect the new interaction port,
which is going to get data back
and forth between the billboard
and the interaction patch to do
a little bit of hit detection,
stuff like that.
And I can just connect the x
position and the y position of
my interaction patch to my image.
You'll notice that it actually
snaps into a certain place.
And the reason why is because
the initial position for the
interaction patch is going to be at 0,
0.
And if I wanted to actually set
up my interaction patch or the
components of my composition,
which are going to be interactive,
I could just change the offset.
So now this is interactive.
I can just grab it and move it around.
The idea here being, if I stop,
restart my composition,
it's going to snap back
to that original offset.
So you then use the offset to
kind of position your objects.
So the thing that's really powerful
here is we could have just made
interaction work in the same way that
we do for the interactive placement,
but by adding this patch,
we really kind of have created
a new type of interaction model.
So just like in Quartz
Composer with everything else,
you can actually modulate
these values in line.
So here I have my X position
and my Y position.
They're going into my billboard.
I can just stick patches in
between to change that behavior.
So as an example,
why would you want to do that?
Okay, so a very simple example is one of
the features that we added to the
interaction patch is the ability
to make these things throwable.
So I can just make this throwable,
grab it, and throw it away.
So now it's gone, right?
That's great,
except somebody might not have
wanted that to have been thrown away.
So what you can do is you can
stop and restart your application,
which nobody's going to do.
Or you can actually, say,
set the range of these values
coming out of the interaction patch.
And you do that with a range patch.
So here I have a range.
I can just set the range min to
minus 0.5 and the range max to 0.5.
Just duplicate that.
And I'll modulate these x and y values
coming out of the interaction patch.
Set those into the billboard.
And now you'll notice
that it snapped back.
Now I can throw this,
but it'll be pinned.
So that's just a very simple
example of how you can modulate
interaction in Quartz Composer.
But obviously, you can do some pretty
advanced things with it.
And to give you an example,
I'm going to build that photo
browsing application for you.
All right,
I'll just get set up here again.
So in that photo browsing application,
the first thing that we're going to do is
just kind of get our environment set up.
So I'm just going to paint the
background with a simple gradient.
To do that, I'm going to use a billboard.
Oops.
Let's try that again.
And for this,
I've just prepared a simple gradient that
I made in my favorite image editing tool.
And so in this case,
I actually want the gradient to be sized
to the view or the rendering destination.
So to do that,
I'm just going to set my billboard
to have some custom dimensions.
And I'll just use the rendering
destination dimensions.
And the reason that I want to
do this is because when I'm
creating this composition,
I can actually just go
ahead and manually size it.
But the thing is I don't know where
it's actually going to be shown.
So it could be shown on my MacBook,
or it can be shown on
somebody's 30-inch monitor,
in which case I want the gradient
to be sized to whatever destination
it's actually displayed on.
So in this case,
if I then go ahead and resize
the viewer or go full screen,
you'll notice that it
scales appropriately.
So I'm just going to pick these
patches and I'm going to create a macro
and I'll just call that background.
Again,
it's always a good idea when creating
these compositions to constantly
refactor and keep things kind of clean.
The next thing I'm going to do
is I'm just going to display this
other image here along the bottom.
This is going to be the image
bar at the bottom that's going
to hold each one of my images.
Again, I'll just use a billboard.
Connect my image.
I'll set a custom size for that as well.
So I'll make it, I don't know, 0.3 high.
And I'm going to make it really wide,
and that'll be apparent in a minute.
So let's say like 15 or something.
So in this case,
now I have it and it's just sitting
there and I want to anchor to the bottom.
So I'll just use an anchor patch.
Anchor position.
In this case,
I'll tell the anchor position that
the height is 0.3 and I will use
that to pin the Y position by setting
the anchor point to bottom center.
So again, resolution independent.
I want this always pinned at the bottom.
I can now redrag and change
the size of my viewer,
go full screen,
the bars are at the bottom.
Clean up a little bit.
OK, so the next thing that I want to
do is now that I have this little
image bar here at the bottom,
I want to get a bunch of
images and display them.
So to do that, I'm going to use a similar
macro to what Troy used,
which is download and process images.
But in this case,
I've actually changed it a little
bit to apply some different
effects to these images.
And what this does is it simply goes
out to the Finder and grabs a directory
of images and then iterates over that
list of image paths and downloads
those images and applies a CI filter
to add a little bit of a border,
a shadow,
and then stores them in a structure.
Okay, so considering that
they're now in a structure,
what I need to do is use an
iterator to display them.
So I'll just make sure
that my directory...
is set.
I have a bunch of images
here on my desktop.
I'm going to use an iterator.
You'll notice that the iterator
is non-consuming for those of
you that are familiar with it.
An iterator,
all that it's going to do is it's going
to iterate a certain number of times.
So it'll loop over some data.
So in this case,
what I'm going to have it do
is I'm going to have it draw a
billboard a certain number of times.
I'm going to grab a
structure index member,
which I can use to look
up into a structure,
publish that structure port,
set the index using
the iterator variables,
which is a special patch which
can be used inside of an iterator.
In this case,
I'm going to get the current index.
And that's going to give me the
current index of the current iteration.
I'll connect that to my image.
Clean up.
Now I can just connect the image
structure to my structure here.
And you'll notice it'll
load a bunch of dog images.
You'll also notice that they each have
a little bit of a black background.
That's because I didn't set the
blending mode of my billboard.
I'll just go inside the iterator,
set the blending mode, in this case,
to over.
And I have a bunch of images
laid on top of one or the other.
It's also a good idea
to set the loop count,
the number of iterations that
you perform within your iterator.
So I can just use a structure count.
So in this case,
if I just hover over the image structure,
you'll see that there's 24 members,
but I'm only doing 10 iterations.
So right now,
I only have 10 images being displayed.
So now I can just set that to be dynamic.
In this case, now it'll be 24.
So again, I have 24 images just overlaid
one on top of the other.
So what I want to do next is make
these images a little bit smaller
and kind of arrange them so that
they're offset each in space.
So to make them smaller,
I can just go in and change the width.
And this width is going to apply to every
single one of these iterations because
I have not differentiated it in any way.
I'll just set them to be 0.25.
And that's just a little less than
that bar height that we set so
that they'll sit within that bar.
And now we want to spread them out.
So the question is,
is how do we differentiate
these images or their positions?
And we can do that just
with the current index.
And that's really an identifier or
a means by which to differentiate
items within your iterator.
So in this case,
I'm just going to say take some value,
which is going to be something like a
little bit more than their actual size.
So I have a little bit of a border.
So I'm going to take something like
0.3 and use that to multiply by,
say, the index.
So it'll be 0.3 times 0.
So that'll be 0.3 times 1.
That'll be 0.3, 0.6, so on and so forth.
So I can just use a simple
mathematical expression.
And I will change the
expression to be exactly that.
So it'll just be 0.3 times index.
And now you'll notice that
they're arranged independently.
Each one is offset.
So in this case,
I also kind of want to slide
them a little bit over,
make this a little bit
bigger so you can see.
I want to slide them over to the left and
then I'm also going to slide them down.
So to slide them over to the left,
I can just add a little
bit of an offset here.
So say, I don't know,
plus the start position.
And, you know, I don't know what that is,
but I can just eyeball it,
which is kind of nice.
So we'll just move it over here.
And now in order to move down,
I can do the same thing.
But like I said,
we're kind of creating this so it'll
work in resolution independent modes or
in resolution independent environments.
So instead of just eyeballing
it and sliding it down,
I'll just publish the Y position
here and use the position that we've
generated from our anchor position
to position that bar at the bottom
to anchor our images at the bottom.
So now if I resize this
and go full screen,
you'll notice that they're always
pinned there at the bottom.
So that's basically the
layout for our composition.
All we did is we just positioned a
gradient there at the background,
bar at the bottom, and then a bunch of
images using an iterator.
The next step is to add some
interactivity to each of these
little billboards so that we can go
ahead and drag them around and kind
of position them and create some
kind of photo browsing narrative.
And to do that,
I'm going to use the interaction patch.
I'll just grab the interaction patch,
connect that to my billboard,
and then I'll connect
the X and the Y position.
But you'll notice that I already have
these X and Y positions connected.
So again, if you'll recall,
I can just input these positions
and use the interaction patch
to actually modulate the initial
position of all of my images.
So I'll just connect the X position.
[Transcript missing]
So what that'll do is that'll
refactor my composition,
put this input splitter in here
that has its port published and
connected to the level above.
And now I can just connect that
to my interaction patch and the
interaction patch to my billboard.
Again, I'll just clean up a little bit.
Now if I go full screen,
you'll notice I can
just drag these images.
One thing you'll notice is that
I've arranged these images at
the bottom and there happen to
be 24 and this one's cut off.
So there's a whole bunch of images
that keep going off into the distance.
So what I can do is actually make this
bar here at the bottom draggable and
then use that position to offset the
positions of each one of my images.
So again, it's just an interaction patch.
Here's that image bar,
which I can just relabel
so you guys know.
And in this case,
all I need to do is be able
to move it in the X dimension.
There's nothing special that
you have to do other than
just connect the X position.
So now I have my X position.
And I'm going to just say
add another offset to the
positioning of the offset X.
I have my individual
images within the iterator.
So we'll say bar position.
And I'll just publish that.
And connect the X position
here to my bar position.
So now I can literally just grab my bar,
move it around, and continue on.
I can even say make that throwable.
You'll notice I'll get into the same
situation whereby I can end up kind
of sliding this off into the distance.
Here you'll see the edge of my bar,
not necessarily super clean.
Again,
we can just apply the same principle.
We can just range.
I'll just range that value.
Again, I can just kind of eyeball it.
So in this case, my exposition is...
Let's see, for my last image,
negative 5.2, you know,
and at the start it'll actually be zero.
So the min will be negative 5.2.
The max will be 0.
And I'll just put that in line.
So now I can just kind of throw it to
the end there and nothing will pop off.
Okay, so for the last thing is I want to
make these images actually kind of
grow so that when I place them up top,
what I'm doing is, again,
I'm kind of creating this narrative.
And I'd actually like the model
here to be that I have a bunch of
images at the bottom that represent,
say, my library of images,
and then at the top,
some selects that I've chosen.
So what I can do is in
order to make these,
say, grow when I drag them up,
is I can just test the position of the
actual image against some value and then
say if it is larger than that value in y,
I can just switch the sizes.
So why don't we go and do that?
So in order to do that,
what I'm going to do is I'm just going
to use a conditional to test the value.
And I'm going to be
testing the Y position.
And I want to say if that Y position
is greater than-- in this case,
we have the Y position of our bar,
which again is always going
to change and always be pinned
to the bottom of our view.
And that's actually going to be
this little line here in the middle,
which represents the
middle of our bar image.
So I want it to be a little
bit above so that it doesn't
just pop as soon as I grab it.
So I'll just grab a little math patch.
You'll notice we've actually
made it a little bit smaller,
which is nice and easier to work with.
And I'll say, I don't know,
add a .2 to that.
So now if my Y position is greater
than the bar position plus 0.2,
I want to use that to
switch between two values.
And to do that in Quartz Composer,
we have a multiplexer.
For those of you familiar
with DSP tech terminology,
it's basically a switch.
And I'll change the type,
which is generally an important
thing to do in Quartz Composer.
And the reason why,
particularly in this case,
is because I want to put
values on the input ports.
So I'll set the type to number,
and then I can go ahead
and just set the value.
So for this particular example,
I'm saying if the Y position is
greater than some other position,
then in that case it'll be true
and it'll use source number one.
So I want that to be a value of one
and the current size to be 0.25.
And now if I connect that to my width,
you'll notice that those images up
top just kind of get larger and the
ones at the bottom stay smaller.
So I can just drag these back down.
And then you have a pretty
simple way of kind of switching
between two values based on the
interactive value of the Y position.
So that's what makes it really
easy and nice to kind of,
in this case,
just kind of place a bunch of images.
That guy's hair is just crazy.
This guy's pretty cool.
The monkey riding the dog.
But you'll notice that when
I do pull them up from the
bottom that it's discontinuous.
It'll just pop in size.
As soon as I break that value,
somewhere right around there,
it just instantly switches
between these two values.
So, probably won't be
pleasing to most of you,
so what we can do is we can just
smooth that value out over time.
And to do that,
we'll just use the smooth patch.
So I'll just grab a smooth patch.
Connect that value,
I'll set the duration to be 0.2 and
the type to be sinusoidal in and out.
Connect that to my width.
So now if I go full screen,
You'll notice that when
I drag them from the bottom,
they smoothly interpolate
between those two values.
So that should give you an idea
of what it would be like to
kind of build an interactive
composition in Quartz Composer.
If we could go back to slides, please.
So what we talked about
is interactive placement.
Kind of an obvious thing.
Just a quick and easy way
to set up your compositions.
And then finally,
hopefully you guys get a little bit
of an idea of some of the power that
you get from the interactive model
that we've added to Quartz Composer.
Again, it's just another patch.
And it seems very simple.
But in that case, for example,
just to move in one dimension,
it's just a matter of just
connecting that dimension.
So certain things are
just kind of obvious.
And if you want to then play
with those values over time,
it takes all that
information into account.
And you can really start to
create some very powerful and
expressive interactive models.
So we're really excited about it.
We've started creating
some really cool stuff.
And we're looking forward to some of
the stuff that you guys will create.
So next I'm going to bring up Kevin.
And he's going to talk a little bit about
OpenCL integration in Quartz Composer.
All right.
Thanks, Alessandro.
So it's pretty crazy.
It's pretty amazing what you
can do in 20 minutes right now.
So, these days.
Alessandro, from scratch,
has been building an interactive
for the browser that leverages
both OpenCL and Core Animation.
So interactive that is pretty functional,
so you can just take the composition
and putting in Xcode and have an
application that you can ship.
And so this with no
code and in 20 minutes.
So imagine what you can do in one day,
or maybe two days, maybe a week.
So lots of potential there.
So these with just one patch,
the interaction patch.
And so with the idle state
improvements that we've been
making in Quartz Composer,
the application that you would ship will
also be very efficient on all hardware.
And what it means is that Quartz
Composer will automatically analyze
the graph to understand its time
dependency so that only what needs to be
executed is executed when it needs to.
So if nothing happens, for instance,
if you're in your photo
browser and nothing moves,
nothing will get executed.
The graph will be skipped.
The display won't be flushed.
The CPU won't do anything.
And the GPU won't do anything.
So it makes a very good solution
and a very powerful solution to
create a very stunning interactive
visualization that works all across
the hardware and are very efficient,
in particular on laptops.
So just with one patch,
the interaction patch that
we added to Quartz Composer.
Another very important patch that we're
adding first in the lab is OpenCL.
So OpenCL is this open specification
and programming language that is
built to leverage the the huge
computational powers of the GPUs.
And so we added an OpenCL patch in
Quartz Composer that is similar to
the other programmable patches that
you've seen in Quartz Composer.
So meaning that you have the patch
and you can edit the settings
and write up your OpenCL kernel.
And Quartz Composer will
automatically parse the code to
find input ports and output ports.
And so as for other programmable patches,
compilations will be made in
the background at runtime.
You have error feedback.
So it's a very nice and very easy
way to bring the computational
power of OpenCL in Quartz Composer,
but also much more.
But before going to that,
I'm going to show you a demo
of what this patch can do.
Can I go to demo machine, please?
So I'm going to show you a demo
that I've been showing in the
OpenCL session this morning,
but I'm going to go more in details
into what's behind this composition.
So here's the NBody simulation.
So 16,384 particles surrounding
here in cross-composer.
Here's the composition.
And so what we've been doing,
we have an OpenCL kernel patch
here that if we inspect a setting,
we see that this is just this code,
this OpenCL kernel,
that we've been-- so we haven't
been doing any OpenCL programming.
We just took this kernel that
is available for other demos.
We pasted it in here.
And then you just need to connect the
output of this patch to some renderer
here that does the point drawing.
And so that's it.
So you already immediately can
visualize what this OpenCL kernel does.
And so to show you the power
of the real time compilation,
I've commented here a line that
multiplying the time set by five,
so I can increase that time set
and the simulation picks it up,
comment it out,
the simulation picks it up.
I can also put some error and
the simulation picks it up,
second step,
and we start again where we were.
So it's a great way to understand what's
going on and to iterate very quickly.
But because you're in Quark's Composer
you also have access to the power of
Quark's Composer for visualizations.
And in particular, it's very easy,
and I'm going to show you how,
to add some motion blur here.
So let's say 100 trails.
So that is three dimensional,
so you can rotate and see
how the simulation evolves
over time in a very nice way.
And to do that with Quark's Composer,
it's very easy.
So we just feed up the
result of that kernel into,
so here, three transformations.
So here we just have CI to
generate the little texture that
is applied on each of the dots.
And here we have a QPatch.
So QPatch will stack up whatever
results have been given for
the last number of times.
So here we have, we can set that time
here in the parameters.
So here for instance, 110 times.
So it's going to stack up 110 results.
And then just iterator,
we simply iterate over the structure
and draw each of these set of
points with an alpha that deems
over time to generate this nice,
you know, 3D visualization.
So with no code at all.
And Quark's Composer has
a strong and very powerful
OpenCL pipeline and is going to
cache everything in the background.
You don't have to worry about
doing OpenGL attachment,
vertex buffer object,
all these things will be cached by
Quark's Composer and reused optimally.
So here for instance, you have 100.
So, 200 now.
And let me start again.
Up.
To show you because it's nice.
Here you have -- so, 200 times,
16,000 points being
drawn by Quartz Composer.
It's still smooth and
responsive and very nice.
You can also interact with it.
You can zoom in, zoom out.
So, it's very simple to get from
something very simple and to put
it very far using Quartz Composer.
In particular, this brand-new and very
exciting OpenCL technology.
So, let me go back to slides, please.
Thanks.
But so OpenGL is not only for scientists.
And so it means a lot for Cross Composer.
It's very important for Cross Composer.
I'm going to try to tell you how.
So it's a great complement of the
programmable patches that we had so far.
And so programmable patches, I mean,
so we had GLSL that is good
for doing -- so rendering time,
vertex and fragment processing,
so in OpenGL.
CoreImage that is great for doing
-- and very great for doing image
processing on the GPU or on the CPU and
that handles filter chains very well,
does concatenation and
does color syncing.
So it's very good for image processing.
But it's not good for
other sorts of data,
so other sorts of tasks, for instance,
general data computation,
because it's not built for that.
And so for these sorts of tasks
where you just have arrays of number,
you want to do some processing on them,
some computation, get the maximum,
sort them, that sort of things.
So you had to roll back onto
JavaScript in Cross Composer that
-- so you have the overhead of the
language and it's not -- so it's
very much faster in Snow Leopard,
but still it's not the optimal
way to deal with large amounts
of data -- large amounts of data.
And so what OpenCL brings
to Cross Composer is this
ability for any kind of object
that Cross Composer handles,
and by objects I mean
images or structure,
to do the expensive computation
to offload it on the GPU.
So -- and that's -- and that's a great
match for Cross Composer because the
big advantage and the great quality
of Cross Composer has always been to
be able to have this graph piling that
runs on the CPU and that leverages
the GPU for OpenCL -- for OpenGL,
sorry, for core image whenever it can.
And so there was still missing parts
that it couldn't fulfill on the GPU,
but now OpenCL is going to allow you
to offload all the expensive stuff,
all the expensive
computation onto the GPU.
And then the CPU remains for handling,
you know, events, networking and so on,
or interaction.
So the cheap stuff, the threaded stuff,
all these things can be on the CPU,
and the GPU can be leveraged
whenever it makes sense.
And so that's a great marriage and
that's a great dual solution that
you have here to leverage both the
system very optimally and very simply.
And so you can process images now,
but you can process now geometry,
so structures,
and do some effects on them.
So we added a new mesh patch
that takes some set of points.
And so we show that in the NBody demo,
but that can also draw
triangles or triangle strips.
And so I'm going to show you the
sort of things we can do with this
new pipeline in Quartz Composer.
So let me go back to demo machine.
Thank you.
So that's also some demo I showed
this morning in the OpenCL session,
but I'm going to go more in
detail to understand what's
behind that presentation.
Here you have a cloth simulated
in real time via OpenCL.
So all on the GPU.
There's no download.
So all the computation is on the GPU.
The CPU is doing pretty
much nothing in here.
So you can play with it,
and it's kind of fun.
So it's kind of elastic,
and you can move it
around and everything.
But because you're in Quartz Composer,
so first of all,
you can bring in images very easily
to texture map on that cloth.
But you can also apply some
core image effect on that image,
and it's alpha blended on the background.
OK,
so that was the cloud simulation demo.
And so to summarize, so we tried,
I believe you see where we're trying to
go and the problem we're trying to solve.
So we tried to make QC be a
very fantastic tool for doing
stunning new sorts of very
innovative data visualization and
interactive data visualizations.
So and this works very well with this
idle state so that we'll make that
visualization very efficient over
multiple broad range of hardware and
the interaction that allows you to
very innovative and very novel ways
interact very easily with that UI.
And then OpenCL is there to help
you leveraging the GPU whenever it
needs to bring the whole compute
power of the GPU to your competition
to broaden your range of processing.
So you can process mesh,
you can do simulations,
you can do a lot of things,
rigid body and so on.
You can take these kernels,
bring it into Quartz Composer and
start doing fun stuff with the rest
of Quartz Composer at your hands.
And so reusability then is very
important because a lot of people
use Quartz Composer and they
don't have to be scientists.
So they can be a graphic artist
or they can be regular developers.
And so
They might not want to do
some OpenCL simulations
because it's still some code,
and you might not want to design
that pipeline because you might
look a little complicated,
or you just don't want
to bother about it.
So what you can do with the
Quartz Composer metaphor is
that you can actually wrap
that up inside a virtual patch,
and then you can ask
somebody else to do it,
or you can get it on the Internet,
get a virtual patch that
does whatever you want,
that leverages the CPU with
OpenCL very efficiently,
so it creates stunning
new sorts of interactions,
and you can bring it into your
application and do whatever
you want to do with it.
So if you're a novice,
you can just do some very
nice artistic applications,
artistic visualizations.
And so to show you
what I'm talking about,
well, that's -- I'm going to -- to
show you what I'm talking about,
I'm going to talk to you about
this code simulation patch.
So we just took the code simulation
and put it within a virtual patch.
And we exposed the necessary parameters,
so input ports and output ports,
so that code simulation
virtual patch is taking a mesh,
and we exposed some X and Y position,
some parameters for the width
and the resolution of the mesh,
and it returns from
that non-transform mesh,
it returns a close simulated mesh.
And so if you're an artist,
you don't need to know the internals,
you need to know all the stuff
I just showed you before.
Just get that patch,
put it into whatever you add, and,
you know, start playing with it and start
putting that to new limits.
All right.
And so that's an example that I want
to show you now in this latest demo,
in this last
OK.
So here is this composition that
Alessandro has been doing for you,
demonstrating-- so creating
in front of you in 20 minutes.
And so we added some OpenCL,
so we added this virtual
patch within that composition.
So very simply,
just put the patch and insert it.
And then you can do some fun stuff.
You can just drag this thing around.
And they have the close
simulation going on here,
so you can move it around, play with it,
drag it.
It's kind of elastic.
But you know, it's sort of fun.
So you realize that OpenCL can bring
to your application some new source
and some new way to interact with it
and some new control and new power.
So you can take that thing,
you can bring that up and drag it around,
you can take that other thing,
drag it around.
You can also do real page curl.
And that's what is cool.
You can just take that thing and say, oh,
I want to review what's below.
I can do real page curl.
I can just want to see the other things.
So you don't need to worry about
what's the function I need to do so
that the page curl looks right in 2D.
You can just have that.
You have this paper simulation.
And then it's even simpler,
because you have the close.
You just drag the two corners,
which is only what you need to do,
just drag the corner, pull them up,
and that makes you a real,
physically simulated page curl.
And you can drag stuff around and
everything and play with them.
And yeah, again, so I say, oh,
I want to see my dog.
And you can see a dog.
And then you can reveal your dog.
So OK.
So you see, lots of potential.
That's a part of there.
Thanks to Quartz Composer,
that can really bring all
these technologies together.
And in particular,
OpenCL is going to give you much.
So thanks.
So that was it.
So to know more about Quartz Composer,
Alan Schaeffer is our
graphics evangelist.
So please email him.
Please also come to our lab.
Right after this session,
we're going to be downstairs,
be able to answer any
questions you might have.
So documentation is available.
You also have a very strong
and very good mailing list.
We are very active,
so a lot of people can ask
questions and get it answered.
So it's a very good place to look at.
But right now, of course,
everything we discuss here
is still confidential.
And so the editor is also going to
help when you choose a very convenient.
OK, well, thank you.
And so we're going to have some Q&A now.